<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>PRACTICAL DEMONKEEPING</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="copyrightPage" id="cpy01">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber1"><span class="xrefInternal"><a href="contents.xhtml#cpy_01"><span class="bold">Copyright</span></a></span></h2></div>
<p class="copyrightText">This book is a work of fiction. The characters, incidents, and dialogue are drawn from the author&#8217;s imagination and are not to be construed as real. Any resemblance to actual events or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.</p>
<p class="copyrightText"><span class="smallCaps">PRACTICAL DEMONKEEPING</span>. Copyright &#169; 1992 by Christopher Moore. All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the non-exclusive, non-transferable right to access and read the text of this e-book on-screen.  No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, down-loaded, decompiled, reverse engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereinafter invented, without the express written permission of HarperCollins e-books.</p>
<p class="copyrightText"></p>
<p class="copyrightText">EPub &#169; Edition APRIL 2006 ISBN: 9780061802638</p>
<p class="copyrightText">Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data</p>
<p class="copyrightText">Moore, Christopher<br /> Practical demonkeeping/Christopher Moore.<br /> p.cm.<br /> I. Title. II Practical demonkeeping.<br /> PS3563.0594P73 1992<br /> 813&#8217;.54&#8212;dc20<br /> ISBN 0-380-81655-5 (pbk.)<br /> ISBN 0-06-073542-2 (reissue)</p>
<p class="copyrightText">10 9 8 7</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>
