<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>PRACTICAL DEMONKEEPING</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter" id="ch33">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_33"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><span class="italic">33</span></span></span></a></h2>
<h2 class="chapterTitle"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_33">RIVERA</a></span></span></h2>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><a id="page214"></a>During the drive to Pine Cove, Rivera was nagged by the idea that he had forgotten something. It wasn&#8217;t that he hadn&#8217;t reported where he was going; he had planned that. Until he had physical evidence that there was a serial killer in the area, he wasn&#8217;t saying a word. But when he knocked on the Elliotts&#8217; front door and it swung open, he suddenly remembered that his bullet-proof vest was hanging in his locker back at the station.</p>
<p class="para">He called into the house and waited for an answer. None came.</p>
<p class="para">Only cops and vampires have to have an invitation to enter, he thought. But there is probable cause. The part of his mind that functioned like a district attorney kicked in.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;<span class="italic">So, Sergeant Rivera,&#8221; the lawyer said, &#8220;you entered a private residence based on a computer data base that could have been no more than a mailing list</span>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;<span class="italic">I believed that Effrom Elliott&#8217;s name on the list represented a clear and present danger to a private citizen, so I entered the residence</span>.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para"><a id="page215"></a>Rivera drew his revolver and held it in his right hand while he held his badge out in his left.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Mr. and Mrs. Elliott, this is Sergeant Rivera from the Sheriff&#8217;s Department. I&#8217;m coming in the house.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">He moved from room to room announcing his presence before he entered. The bedroom door was closed. He saw the splintered bullet hole in the door and felt his adrenaline surge.</p>
<p class="para">Should he call for backup?</p>
<p class="para"><span class="italic">The D.A. said: &#8220;And so you entered the house on what basis</span>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Rivera came through the door low and rolled. He lay for a moment on the floor of the empty room, feeling stupid.</p>
<p class="para">What now? He couldn&#8217;t call in and report a bullet hole in a residence that he had probably entered illegally, especially when he hadn&#8217;t reported that he was in Pine Cove in the first place.</p>
<p class="para">One step at a time, he told himself.</p>
<p class="para">Rivera returned to his unmarked car and reported that he was in Pine Cove.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Sergeant Rivera,&#8221; the dispatcher said, &#8220;there is a message for you from Technical Sergeant Nailsworth. He said to tell you that Robert Masterson is married to the granddaughter of Effrom Elliott. He said he doesn&#8217;t know what it means, but he thought you should know.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">It meant that he had to find Robert Masterson. He acknowledged the message and signed off.</p>
<p class="para">Fifteen minutes later he was at The Breeze&#8217;s trailer. The old pickup was gone and no one answered the door. He radioed the station and requested a direct patch to the Spider.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Nailgun, can you get me Masterson&#8217;s wife&#8217;s home address? He gave the trailer as residence when we brought him in. And give me the place where she works.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Hold on, it&#8217;ll be just a second for her address.&#8221; Rivera lit a cigarette while he waited. Before he took the second drag, Nailsworth came back with the address and the shortest route from Rivera&#8217;s location.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;It will take a little longer for the employer. I have to access the Social Security files.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para"><a id="page216"></a>&#8220;How long?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Five, maybe ten minutes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I&#8217;m on my way to the house. Maybe I won&#8217;t need it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Rivera, there was a fire call at that address this morning. That mean anything to you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Nothing means anything to me anymore, Nailsworth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Five minutes later Rivera pulled up in front of Jenny&#8217;s house. Everything was covered with a gummy gray goo, a mix of ashes, flour, and water from the fire hoses. As Rivera climbed out of the car, Nailsworth called back.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Jennifer Masterson is currently employed at H.P.&#8217;s Cafe, off Cypress in Pine Cove. You want the phone number?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;No,&#8221; Rivera said. &#8220;If she&#8217;s not here, I&#8217;ll go over there. It&#8217;s just a few doors down from my next stop.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;You need anything else?&#8221; Nailsworth sounded as if he was holding something back.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;No,&#8221; Rivera said. &#8220;I&#8217;ll call if I do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Rivera, don&#8217;t forget about that other matter.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;What matter?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Roxanne. Check on her for me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;As soon as I can, Nailsworth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Rivera threw the radio mike onto the passenger seat. As he walked up to the house, he heard someone come on the radio singing a chorus to the song &#8220;Roxanne&#8221; in a horrible falsetto. Nailsworth had shown his weakness over an open frequency, and now, Rivera knew, the whole department would ride the fat man&#8217;s humiliation into the ground.</p>
<p class="para">When this was over, Rivera promised himself, he would concoct a story to vindicate the Spider&#8217;s pride. He owed him that. Of course, that depended on Rivera vindicating himself.</p>
<p class="para">The walk to the door covered his shoes with gray goo. He waited for an answer and returned to the car, cursing in Spanish, his shoes converted to dough balls.</p>
<p class="para">He didn&#8217;t get out of the car at H.P.&#8217;s Cafe. It was obvious from the darkened windows that no one was inside. His last chance was the Head of the Slug Saloon. If Masterson wasn&#8217;t there, he was out <a id="page217"></a>of leads, and he would have to report what he knew, or, what was more embarrassing, what he didn&#8217;t know, to the captain.</p>
<p class="para">Rivera found a parking place in front of the Slug behind Robert&#8217;s truck, and after taking a few minutes to get his right shoe unstuck from the gas pedal, he went in.</p>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
