<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>PRACTICAL DEMONKEEPING</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter" id="ch30">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_30"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><span class="italic">30</span></span></span></a></h2>
<h2 class="chapterTitle"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_30">JENNY</a></span></span></h2>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><a id="page203"></a>Jenny had arrived at work a half hour late expecting to find Howard waiting behind the counter to reprimand her in his own erudite way. Strangely enough, she didn&#8217;t care. Even more strange was the fact that Howard had not shown up at the cafe all morning.</p>
<p class="para">Considering that she had drunk two bottles of wine, eaten a heavy Italian meal and everything in the refrigerator, and stayed up all night making love, she should have been tired, but she wasn&#8217;t. She felt wonderful, full of humor and energy, and not a little excited. When she thought of her night with Travis, she grinned and shivered. There should be guilt, she thought. She was, technically, a married woman. Technically, she was having an illicit affair. But she had never been very technically minded. Instead of guilt she felt happy and eager to do it all again.</p>
<p class="para">From the moment she got to work she began counting the hours until she got off after the lunch shift. She was at one hour and counting when the cook announced that there was a call for her in the office.</p>
<p class="para"><a id="page204"></a>She quickly refilled her customer&#8217;s coffee cups and headed to the back. If it was Robert, she would just act like nothing had happened. She wasn&#8217;t exactly in love with someone else as he suspected. It was&#8230;it didn&#8217;t matter what it was. She didn&#8217;t have to explain anything. If it was Travis&#8212;she hoped it was Travis.</p>
<p class="para">She picked up the phone. &#8220;Hello.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Jenny?&#8221; It was a woman&#8217;s voice. &#8220;It&#8217;s Rachel. Look, I&#8217;m having a special ritual this afternoon at the caves. I need you to be there.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Jennifer did not want to go to a ritual.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I don&#8217;t know, Rachel, I have plans after work.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Jennifer, this is the most important thing we&#8217;ve ever done, and I need you to be there. What time do you get off?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I&#8217;m off at two, but I need to go home and change first.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;No, don&#8217;t do that. Come as you are&#8212;it&#8217;s really important.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;But I really&#8230;&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Please, Jenny. It will only take a few minutes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Jennifer had never heard Rachel sound so adamant. Maybe it really was important.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Okay. I guess I can make it. Do you need me to call any of the others?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;No. I&#8217;ll do it. You just be at the caves as soon as you can after two.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Okay, fine, I&#8217;ll be there.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;And Jenny&#8221;&#8212;Rachel&#8217;s voice had lowered an octave&#8212;&#8220;don&#8217;t tell anyone where you are going.&#8221; Rachel hung up.</p>
<p class="para">Jennifer immediately dialed her home phone and got the answering machine. &#8220;Travis, if you&#8217;re there, pick up.&#8221; She waited. He was probably still sleeping. &#8220;I&#8217;m going to be a little late. I&#8217;ll be home later this afternoon.&#8221; She almost said, &#8220;I love you,&#8221; but decided not to. She pushed the thought out of her mind. &#8220;Bye,&#8221; she said, and hung up.</p>
<p class="para">Now, if she could only avoid Robert until she could think of a way to destroy his hope for their reconciliation. Returning to the floor of the cafe, she realized that somewhere along the way her feeling of well-being had vanished and she felt very tired.</p>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
