<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>PRACTICAL DEMONKEEPING</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter" id="ch27">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_27"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><span class="italic">27</span></span></span></a></h2>
<h2 class="chapterTitle"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_27">AUGUSTUS</a></span></span></h2>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><a id="page184"></a>Augustus Brine lit his pipe and played back the details of Travis&#8217;s story in his mind. He had finished the bottle of wine, but if anything, it had brought clarity to his thoughts by washing away the adrenaline from the morning&#8217;s adventure.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;There was a time, Travis, that if someone had told me a story like that, I would have called the mental-health people to come and pick him up, but in the last twenty-four hours reality has been riding the dragon&#8217;s back, and I&#8217;m just trying to hang on myself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Meaning what?&#8221; Travis asked.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Meaning I believe you.&#8221; Brine rose from the chair and began untying the ropes that bound Travis.</p>
<p class="para">There was a scuffling behind them and Brine turned to see Gian Hen Gian coming through the living room wearing a flowered towel around his waist and another around his head. Brine thought he looked like a prune in a Carmen Miranda costume.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I am refreshed and ready for the torture, Augustus Brine.&#8221; The Djinn stopped when he saw Brine untying the demonkeeper. &#8220;So, <a id="page185"></a>will we hang the beast from a tall building by his heels until he talks?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Lighten up, King,&#8221; Brine said.</p>
<p class="para">Travis flexed his arms to get the blood flowing. &#8220;Who is that?&#8221; he asked.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;That,&#8221; Brine said, &#8220;is Gian Hen Gian, king of the Djinn.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;As in genie?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Correct,&#8221; Brine said.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I don&#8217;t believe it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;You are not in a position to be incredulous toward the existence of supernatural beings, Travis. Besides, the Djinn was the one who told me how to find you. He knew Catch twenty-five centuries before you were born.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Gian Hen Gian stepped forward and shook a knotted brown finger in Travis&#8217;s face. &#8220;Tell us where the Seal of Solomon is hidden or we will have your genitals in a nine-speed reverse action blender with a five-year guarantee before you can say shazam!&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Brine raised an eyebrow toward the Djinn. &#8220;You found the Sears catalog in the bathroom.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">The Djinn nodded. &#8220;It is filled with many fine instruments of torture.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;There won&#8217;t be any need for that. Travis is trying to find the seal so he can send the demon back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I told you,&#8221; Travis said, &#8220;I&#8217;ve never seen the Seal of Solomon. It&#8217;s a myth. I read about it a hundred times in books of magic, but it was always described differently. I think they made it up in the Middle Ages to sell books of magic.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">The Djinn hissed at Travis and there was a wisp of blue damask in the air. &#8220;You lie! You could not call up Catch without the seal.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Brine raised a hand to the Djinn to quiet him. &#8220;Travis found the invocation for calling up the demon in a candlestick. He never saw the seal, but I believe it was concealed in the candlestick where he could not see it. Gian Hen Gian, have you ever seen the Seal of Solomon? Would it be possible to conceal it in a candlestick?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;It was a silver scepter in Solomon&#8217;s time,&#8221; the Djinn said. &#8220;I suppose it could have been made into a candlestick.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Well, Travis thinks that the invocation for sending the demon <a id="page186"></a>back is concealed in the candlestick he didn&#8217;t open. I&#8217;d guess that anyone who had that knowledge and the Seal of Solomon would also have an invocation for giving you your power. In fact, I&#8217;d bet my life on it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;It is possible, but it is also possible that the dark one is misdirecting you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I don&#8217;t think so,&#8221; Brine said. &#8220;I don&#8217;t think he wanted to be involved in this any more than I did. In seventy years he&#8217;s never figured out that it&#8217;s his will that controls Catch.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;The dark one is retarded, then!&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Hey!&#8221; Travis said.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Enough!&#8221; Brine said. &#8220;We have things to do. Gian Hen Gian, go get dressed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">The Djinn left the room without protest and Brine turned again to Travis. &#8220;I think you found the woman you&#8217;ve been looking for,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Amanda and Effrom Elliot were married right after he returned from World War One. They get their picture in the local paper every year on their anniversary&#8212;you know, under a caption that reads, &#8216;And they said it wouldn&#8217;t last.&#8217; As soon as the king is ready we&#8217;ll go over there and see if we can get the candlesticks&#8212;if she still has them. I need your word that I can trust you not to try to escape.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;You have it,&#8221; Travis said. &#8220;But I think we should go back to Jenny&#8217;s house&#8212;be ready when Catch returns.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Brine said, &#8220;I want you to try to put Jenny out of your mind, Travis. That&#8217;s the only way you&#8217;ll regain control of the demon. But first, there&#8217;s something you ought to know about her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I know&#8212;she&#8217;s married.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;No. She&#8217;s Amanda&#8217;s granddaughter.&#8221;</p>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
