<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>PRACTICAL DEMONKEEPING</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter" id="ch21">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_21"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><span class="italic">21</span></span></span></a></h2>
<h2 class="chapterTitle"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_21">AUGUSTUS BRINE</a></span></span></h2>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><a id="page144"></a>&#8220;I found them. The car is parked in front of Jenny Masterson&#8217;s house.&#8221; Augustus Brine stormed into the house carrying a grocery bag in each arm.</p>
<p class="para">Gian Hen Gian was in the kitchen pouring salt from a round, blue box into a pitcher of Koolaid.</p>
<p class="para">Brine set the bags down on the hearth. &#8220;Help me bring some of this stuff in. There&#8217;s more bags in the truck.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">The genie walked to the fireplace and looked in the bags. One was filled with dry-cell batteries and spools of wire. The other was full of brown cardboard cylinders about four inches long and an inch in diameter. Gian Hen Gian took one of the cylinders out of the bag and held it up. A green, waterproof fuse extended from one end.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;What are these?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Seal bombs,&#8221; Brine said. &#8220;The Department of Fish and Game distributes them to fishermen to scare seals away from their lines and nets. I had a bunch at the store.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Explosives are useless against the demon.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para"><a id="page145"></a>&#8220;There are five more bags in the truck. Would you bring them in, please?&#8221; Brine began to lay the seal bombs out in a line on the hearth. &#8220;I don&#8217;t know how much time we have.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;What am I, some scrounging servant? Am I a beast of burden? Should I, Gian Hen Gian, king of the Djinn, be reduced to bearing loads for an ignorant mortal who would attack a demon from hell with firecrackers?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;O King,&#8221; Brine said, exasperated, &#8220;please bring in the goddamn bags so I can finish this before dawn.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;It is useless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I&#8217;m not going to try to blow him up. I just want to know where he is. Unless you can use your great power to restrain him, O King of the Djinn.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;You know I cannot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;The bags!&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;You are a stupid, mean-spirited man, Augustus Brine. I&#8217;ve seen more intelligence in the crotch lice of harem whores.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">The genie walked out the door and his diatribe faded into the night. Brine was methodically wrapping the fuses of the seal bombs with thin monofilament silver wire designed to heat up when a current was applied. It was an inexact method of detonation, but Brine had no access to blasting caps at this hour of the morning.</p>
<p class="para">The genie returned in a moment carrying two grocery bags.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Put them on the chairs.&#8221; Brine gestured with his head.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;These bags are filled with flour,&#8221; Gian Hen Gian said. &#8220;Are you going to bake bread, Augustus Brine?&#8221;</p>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
