<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>PRACTICAL DEMONKEEPING</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter" id="ch19">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_19"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><span class="italic">19</span></span></span></a></h2>
<h2 class="chapterTitle"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_19">JENNY&#8217;S HOUSE</a></span></span></h2>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><a id="page132"></a>Jenny parked the Toyota behind Travis&#8217;s Chevy and killed the lights.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Well?&#8221; Travis said.</p>
<p class="para">Jenny said, &#8220;Would you like to come in?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Well.&#8221; Travis acted as if he had to think about it. &#8220;Yes, I&#8217;d love to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Give me a minute to go in and clear a path, okay?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;No problem, I need to check on something in my car.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Thanks.&#8221; Jenny smiled with relief.</p>
<p class="para">They got out of the car. Jenny went into the house. Travis leaned against the door of the Chevy and waited for her to get inside. Then he threw open the car door and peeked inside.</p>
<p class="para">Catch was sitting on the passenger side, his face stuck in a comic book. He looked up at Travis and grinned.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Oh, you&#8217;re back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Did you play the radio?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;No way.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para"><a id="page133"></a>&#8220;Good. It&#8217;s wired into the battery directly; it&#8217;ll drain the current.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Didn&#8217;t touch it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Travis glanced at the suitcase on the backseat. &#8220;Keep an eye on that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;You got it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Travis didn&#8217;t move.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Is there something wrong?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Well, you&#8217;re being awfully agreeable.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I told you, I&#8217;m just glad to see you having a good time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;You may have to stay the night in the car. You aren&#8217;t hungry, are you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Get a grip, Travis. I just ate last night.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Travis nodded. &#8220;I&#8217;ll check on you later, so stay here.&#8221; Travis closed the car door.</p>
<p class="para">Catch jumped to his feet and watched over the dashboard while Travis went into the house. Ironically, they were both thinking the same thing: <span class="italic">in a little while this will all be over</span>.</p>
<p class="para">Catch coughed and a red spiked heel shot out of his mouth and bounced off the windshield, spattering the glass with hellish spit.</p>
<p class="spaceBreak">&#160;</p>
<p class="para">Robert had parked his truck a block away from his old house and walked up, hoping and dreading that he would catch Jenny with another man. As he approached the house, he saw the old Chevy parked in front of her Toyota.</p>
<p class="para">He had run through this scene a hundred times in his mind. Walk out of the dark, catch her with the guy, and shout &#8220;Ah ha!&#8221; Then things got sketchy.</p>
<p class="para">What was the point? He didn&#8217;t really want to catch her at anything. He wanted her to come to the door with tears streaming down her cheeks. He wanted her to throw her arms around him and beg him to come home. He wanted to assure her that everything would be fine and forgive her for throwing him out. He had run that scene through his mind a hundred times as well. After they made love for the third time, things got sketchy.</p>
<p class="para">The Chevy was not part of his preconceived scenes. It was like a preview, a teaser. It meant that someone was in the house with <a id="page134"></a>Jenny. Someone who, unlike Robert, had been invited. New scenes ran through his mind: knocking on the door, having Jenny answer, looking around her shoulder to see another man sitting on the couch, and being sent away. He couldn&#8217;t stand that. It was too real.</p>
<p class="para">Maybe it wasn&#8217;t a guy at all. Maybe it was one of the women from the coven who had stopped over to comfort Jenny in her time of need. Then the dream came back to him. He was tied to a chair in the desert again, watching Jenny make love with another man. The little monster was shoving saltines in his mouth.</p>
<p class="para">Robert realized he had been standing in the middle of the street staring at the house for several minutes, torturing himself. Just be adult about it. Go up and knock on the door. If she is with someone else, just excuse yourself and come back later. He felt an ache rising in his chest at the thought.</p>
<p class="para">No, just walk away. Go back to The Breeze&#8217;s trailer and call her tomorrow. The thought of another night alone with his heartbreak increased the ache in his chest.</p>
<p class="para">Robert&#8217;s indecision had always angered Jenny. Now it was paralyzing him. &#8220;Just pick a direction and go, Robert,&#8221; she would say. &#8220;It can&#8217;t be any worse than sitting here pitying yourself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para"><span class="italic">But it&#8217;s the only thing I&#8217;m good at</span>, he thought.</p>
<p class="para">A truck rounded the corner and started slowly to roll up the street. Robert was galvanized into action. He ran to the Chevy and ducked behind it. <span class="italic">I&#8217;m hiding in front of my own house. This is silly</span>, he thought. Still, it was as if anyone who passed would know how small and weak he was. He didn&#8217;t want to be seen.</p>
<p class="para">The truck slowed almost to a stop as it passed the house, then the driver gunned the engine and sped off. Robert stayed in a crouch behind the Chevy for several minutes before he moved.</p>
<p class="para">He had to know.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;<span class="italic">Just pick a direction and go</span>.&#8221; He decided to peek in the windows. There were two windows in the living room, about six feet off the ground. Both were old-style, weighted-sash types. Jenny had planted geraniums in the window boxes outside. If the window boxes were strong enough, he could hoist himself up and peek through the gap in the drawn curtains.</p>
<p class="para"><a id="page135"></a>Spying on your own wife was sleazy. It was dirty. It was perverse. He thought about it for a moment, then made his way across the yard to the windows. Sleazy, dirty, and perverse would be improvements over how he felt now.</p>
<p class="para">He grabbed the edge of the window box and tested his weight against it. It held. He pulled himself up, hooked his chin on the window box, and peered through the gap in the curtains.</p>
<p class="para">They were on the couch, facing away from him: Jenny and some man. For a moment he thought Jenny was naked, then he saw the thin straps of her black dress. She never wore that dress anymore. It gave out the wrong kind of message, she used to say, meaning it was too sexy.</p>
<p class="para">He stared at them in fascination, caught by the reality of his fear like a deer caught in car headlights. The man turned to say something to Jenny, and Robert caught his profile. It was the guy from the nightmare, the guy he had seen in the Slug that afternoon.</p>
<p class="para">He couldn&#8217;t look any longer. He lowered himself to the ground. A knot of sad questions beat at him. Who was this guy? What was so great about this guy? What does he have that I don&#8217;t? Worst of all, how long has this been going on?</p>
<p class="para">Robert stumbled away from the house toward the street. They were sitting in his house, on his couch&#8212;the couch he and Jenny had saved up to buy. How could she do that? Didn&#8217;t everything in the house remind her of their marriage? How could she sit on his couch with some other man? Would they screw in his bed? The ache rose up in his chest at the thought, almost doubling him over.</p>
<p class="para">He thought about trashing the guy&#8217;s car. It was pretty trashed already, though. Flatten the tires? Break the windshield? Piss in the gas tank? No, then he would have to admit to spying. But he had to do something.</p>
<p class="para">Maybe he could find something in the car that would tell him who this home wrecker was. He peered through the Chevy&#8217;s windows. Nothing much to see: a few fast-food wrappers, a comic book on the front seat, and a Haliburton suitcase on the backseat. Robert recognized it immediately. He used to carry his four-by-<a id="page136"></a>five camera in the same model suitcase. He had sold the camera and given the suitcase to The Breeze for rent.</p>
<p class="para">Was this guy a photographer? One way to find out. He hesitated, his hand on the car door handle. What if the guy came out while Robert was rummaging through the car? What would he do? Fuck it. The guy was rummaging through his life, wasn&#8217;t he? Robert tried the door. It was unlocked. He threw it open and reached in.</p>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
