<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>PRACTICAL DEMONKEEPING</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter" id="ch23">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_23"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><span class="italic">23</span></span></span></a></h2>
<h2 class="chapterTitle"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_23">RIVERA</a></span></span></h2>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><a id="page153"></a>Rivera came through the trailer door followed by two uniformed officers. Robert sat up on the couch and was immediately rolled over and handcuffed. Rivera read him his <span class="italic">Miranda</span> rights before he was completely awake. When Robert&#8217;s vision cleared, Rivera was sitting in a chair in front of him, holding a piece of paper in his face.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Robert, I am Detective Sergeant Alphonse Rivera.&#8221; A badge wallet flipped open in Rivera&#8217;s other hand. &#8220;This is a warrant for your and The Breeze&#8217;s arrest. There&#8217;s one here to search this trailer as well, which is what I and deputies Deforest and Perez will be doing in just a moment.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">A uniformed officer appeared from the far end of the trailer. &#8220;He&#8217;s not here, Sergeant.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Thanks,&#8221; Rivera said to the uniform. To Robert he said: &#8220;Things will go easier for you if you tell me right now where I can find The Breeze.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Robert was starting to get a foggy idea of what was going on.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;So you&#8217;re not a dealer?&#8221; he asked sleepily.</p>
<p class="para"><a id="page154"></a>&#8220;You&#8217;re quick, Masterson. Where&#8217;s The Breeze?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;The Breeze didn&#8217;t have anything to do with it. He&#8217;s been gone for two days. I took the suitcase because I wanted to know who the guy was that was with my wife.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;What suitcase?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Robert nodded toward the living-room floor. The Haliburton case lay there unopened. Rivera picked it up and tried the latches.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;It&#8217;s got a combination lock,&#8221; Robert said. &#8220;I couldn&#8217;t get it open.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Sheriff&#8217;s deputies were riffling through the trailer. From the back bedroom one shouted. &#8220;Rivera, we&#8217;ve got it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Stay here, Robert. I&#8217;ll be right back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Rivera rose and started toward the bedroom just as Perez appeared in the kitchen holding another aluminum suitcase.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;That it?&#8221; Rivera asked.</p>
<p class="para">Perez, a dark Hispanic who seemed too small to be a deputy, threw the suitcase on the kitchen table and opened the lid. &#8220;Jackpot,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="para">Neat square blocks of plastic-covered green weed lay in even rows across the suitcase. Robert could smell a faint odor like skunk coming from the marijuana.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I&#8217;ll get the testing kit,&#8221; Perez said.</p>
<p class="para">Rivera took a deep sniff and looked at Perez quizzically. &#8220;Right, it could be just lawn clippings that they weighed out in pounds.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Perez looked hurt by Rivera&#8217;s sarcasm. &#8220;But for the record?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Rivera waved him away, then returned to the couch and sat down next to Robert.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;You are in deep trouble, my friend.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;You know,&#8221; Robert said, &#8220;I felt really bad about being so rude to you yesterday when you came by.&#8221; He smiled weakly. &#8220;I&#8217;ve been going through some really hard times.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Make it up to me, Robert. Tell me where The Breeze is.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I don&#8217;t know.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Then you are going to eat shit for all that pot over there on the table.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I didn&#8217;t even know it was there. I thought you guys were here about the suitcase I took. The other one.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para"><a id="page155"></a>&#8220;Robert, you and I are going to go back to the station and have a really long talk. You can tell me all about the suitcase and all the folks that The Breeze has been keeping company with.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Sergeant Rivera, I don&#8217;t mean to be rude or anything, but I wasn&#8217;t quite awake when you were telling me the charges&#8230;sir.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Rivera helped Robert to his feet and led him out of the trailer. &#8220;Possession of marijuana for sale and conspiracy to sell marijuana. Actually the conspiracy charge is the nastier of the two.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;So you didn&#8217;t even know about the suitcase I took?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I couldn&#8217;t care less about the suitcase.&#8221; Rivera pushed Robert into the cruiser. &#8220;Watch your head.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;You should bring it along just to see who the guy was that it belonged to. Your guys in the lab can open it and&#8230;&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">Rivera slammed the car door on Robert&#8217;s comment. He turned to Deforest, who was coming out of the trailer. &#8220;Grab that suitcase out of the living room and tag it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;More pot, Sarge?&#8221;</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I don&#8217;t think so, but the whacko seems to think it&#8217;s important.&#8221;</p>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
