<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>PRACTICAL DEMONKEEPING</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="pdlmsr.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter" id="ch36">
<div class="chapterHead">
<h2 class="chapterNumber"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_36"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><span class="italic">36</span></span></span></a></h2>
<h2 class="chapterTitle"><span class="xrefInternal"><span class="bold"><a href="contents.xhtml#ch_36">JENNY, ROBERT, RIVERA, AMANDA, TRAVIS, HOWARD, AND THE SPIDER</a></span></span></h2>
</div>
<div class="chapterBody">
<p class="chapterOpenerText"><a id="page239"></a>Rivera drove Robert and Jennifer to their house. They sat in the back, holding each other the whole way, not saying a word until they thanked him when he dropped them off. On the drive back to the station Rivera tried to formulate a story that would save his career. Any version of the true story seemed like a sure ticket to a psychological disability retirement. In the end he decided to tell the story as far as the point where The Breeze disappeared.</p>
<p class="para">A month later Rivera was pumping Slush-Puppies at the Seven-Eleven, working undercover for the robbery division. However, with the arrest of a team of robbers that had terrorized convenience stores in the county for six months, he was promoted to lieutenant.</p>
<p class="para">Amanda and Travis rode with Howard. At Amanda&#8217;s request, Gian Hen Gian saw that Effrom&#8217;s body was turned to stone and placed inside the cave. When Howard stopped in front of Amanda&#8217;s house, she invited Travis to come inside. He refused at first, wanting to leave her alone with her grief.</p>
<p class="para"><a id="page240"></a>&#8220;Have you completely missed the significance of all this, Travis?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;I guess so,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="para">&#8220;Did it occur to you that the presence of Catch and Gian Hen Gian proves that Effrom is not gone completely? I will miss him, but he goes on. And I don&#8217;t want to be alone right now. I helped you when you needed it,&#8221; she said, and she waited.</p>
<p class="para">Travis went in.</p>
<p class="para">Howard went home to work on a new menu for his restaurant.</p>
<p class="para">Chief Technical Sergeant Nailsworth never found out what happened to Roxanne or who she really was, and he was heartbroken. Because of his grief he was unable to eat, lost a hundred and fifty pounds, met a girl at a computer user&#8217;s meeting, and married her. He never had computer sex again outside the privacy of his home.</p>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
